[REL-1537] Rn v24.3.0 beta.3 release notes (#19089)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/_includes/releases/v24.3/v24.3.0-beta.3.md

    If the command returns `1` instead of `on`, run the following statement before upgrading.

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ sql
    RESET CLUSTER SETTING sql.defaults.vectorize;
    ~~~

    `1` is now allowed as a value for this setting, and is equivalent to `on`. [#133371][#133371]
- Fixed a bug in v22.2.13+, v23.1.9+, and v23.2 that could cause the internal error `interface conversion: coldata.Column is` in an edge case. [#133762][#133762]
- Fixed a bug introduced in v20.1.0 that could cause erroneous `NOT NULL` constraint violation errors to be logged during `UPSERT` and `INSERT` statements with the `ON CONFLICT ...DO UPDATE` clause that update an existing row and a subset of columns that did not include a `NOT NULL` column of the table. [#133820][#133820]
- Fixed a that could cache and reuse a non-reusable query plan, such as a plan for a DDL or `SHOW` statement, when `plan_cache_mode` was set to `auto` or `force_generic_plan`, which are not the default options. [#133073][#133073]
- Fixed an unhandled error that could occur while running the command `REVOKE ... ON SEQUENCE FROM ... {user}` on an object that is not a sequence. [#133710][#133710]

> - Fixed a panic that could occur while running a `CREATE TABLE AS` statement that included a [sequence]({% link v24.3/create-sequence.md %) with an invalid function overload. [#133870][#133870]

Author: ```suggestion
- Fixed a panic that could occur while running a `CREATE TABLE AS` statement that included a [sequence]({% link v24.3/create-sequence.md %}) with an invalid function overload. [#133870][#133870]
```

> - Fixed a panic that could occur while running a `CREATE TABLE AS` statement that included a [sequence]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/create-sequence.md %) with an invalid function overload. [#133870][#133870]

Author: ```suggestion
- Fixed a panic that could occur while running a `CREATE TABLE AS` statement that included a [sequence]({% link v24.3/create-sequence.md %) with an invalid function overload. [#133870][#133870]
```

## v24.3.0-beta.3

Release Date: November 5, 2024

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v24-3-0-beta-3-security-updates">Security updates</h3>

- Client authentication errors using LDAP now log more details to help with troubleshooting authentication and authorization issues. [#133812][#133812]
~~~

> <h3 id="v24-3-0-beta-3-sql-changes">Sql changes</h4>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<h3 id="v24-3-0-beta-3-sql-changes">SQL changes</h4>
```

<h3 id="v24-3-0-beta-3-operational-changes">Operational changes</h3>

- Added a timer for inner [changefeed sink]({% link v24.3/changefeed-sinks.md %}) client flushes. [#133288][#133288]
- Rows replicated by Logical Data Replication in `immediate` mode are now considered in the decision to recompute SQL table statistics. [#133591][#133591]
- The new cluster setting `kvadmission.flow_controller.token_reset_epoch` can be used to refill replication [admission control]({% link v24.3/admission-control.md %}) v2 tokens. This is an advanced setting. Use it only after consultation with your account team. [#133294][#133294]
- The new cluster setting `goschedstats.always_use_short_sample_period.enabled`, when set to `true`, helps to prevent unnecessary queueing due to CPU [admission control]({% link v24.3/admission-control.md %}s. [#133585][#133585]

<h3 id="v24-3-0-beta-3-db-console-changes">DB Console changes</h3>

> - In [Database]({% link v24.3/ui-database-page.md %}) and [Database Details]({% link v24.2/ui-database-details-page.md %}) pages, the **Refresh** tooltip now includes details about the progress of cache updates and when the job started. [#133351][#133351]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In [Database]({% link v24.3/ui-databases-page.md %}) and [Database Details]({% link v24.2/ui-database-details-page.md %}) pages, the **Refresh** tooltip now includes details about the progress of cache updates and when the job started. [#133351][#133351]
```

<h3 id="v24-3-0-beta-3-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

- Fixed a bug where [changefeed sink]({% link v24.3/changefeed-sinks.md %})) timers were not correctly registered with the metric system. [#133288][#133288]
- Fixed a bug that could cause new connections to fail with the following error after upgrading: `ERROR: invalid value for parameter "vectorize": "unknown(1)" SQLSTATE: 22023 HINT: Available values: off,on,experimental_always`. To encounter this bug, the cluster must have:
    1. Run on version v21.1 at some point in the past
    1. Run `SET CLUSTER SETTING sql.defaults.vectorize = 'on';` while running v21.1.

>     1. **Not** set `sql.defaults.vectorize` after upgrading past v21.1 4.

Author: Yep that is what the upstream note says. The cluster has to have set the setting to the specific value `on` in a 21.1 prior to 21.4, not set the setting at all in 21.1.4+, then upgraded to v24.2 to hit the bug, which is now fixed in 24.3.0-beta.3.

    If the command returns `1` instead of `on`, run the following statement before upgrading.

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ sql
    RESET CLUSTER SETTING sql.defaults.vectorize;
    ~~~

    `1` is now allowed as a value for this setting, and is equivalent to `on`. [#133371][#133371]
- Fixed a bug in v22.2.13+, v23.1.9+, and v23.2 that could cause the internal error `interface conversion: coldata.Column is` in an edge case. [#133762][#133762]
- Fixed a bug introduced in v20.1.0 that could cause erroneous `NOT NULL` constraint violation errors to be logged during `UPSERT` and `INSERT` statements with the `ON CONFLICT ...DO UPDATE` clause that update an existing row and a subset of columns that did not include a `NOT NULL` column of the table. [#133820][#133820]
- Fixed a that could cache and reuse a non-reusable query plan, such as a plan for a DDL or `SHOW` statement, when `plan_cache_mode` was set to `auto` or `force_generic_plan`, which are not the default options. [#133073][#133073]
- Fixed an unhandled error that could occur while running the command `REVOKE ... ON SEQUENCE FROM ... {user}` on an object that is not a sequence. [#133710][#133710]

> - Fixed a panic that could occur while running the command `CREATE TABLE AS` if sequence builtin expressions had invalid function overloads. [#133870][#133870]

Author: ```suggestion
- Fixed a panic that could occur while running a `CREATE TABLE AS` statement that included a [sequence]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/create-sequence.md %) with an invalid function overload. [#133870][#133870]
```
